# Create-PSScaffold

## Introduction
I want to start this readme by thank you Josh King for his work on the azure Calendar and Adam Bertram for his articles on DevOps around Azure. Those two persons gave me the inspiration of this script.

This **cross platform** script will help you to create a default **cross platform** Powershell module which will include:

- A naming convention for all files and folders for **all Operating systems**

- A standardized folders structure
  
- A custom autogenerated manifest
  
- A single build file with various parameter to Analyse (PsScriptAnalyzer), create your docs (PlatyPS), Test (Pester), build your psm1 and psd1 on the fly with buildversion and a not tested function from Josh King to upload the module directly on the PSGallery.

- An advanced function to start the dev (I always look for an advanced function to copy/paste at the beginning of a project)

- A basic Pester file

- A .Gitignore file pre-filled

- An Azure DevOps pipeline file to build your module on MAC/Linux/Windows Core/ Windows psV5 (Work in progress).

## Why?

There is in fact few reasons behind this idea :

- I have to create more and more tiny modules for my work.
  
- People start to understand that PS is not only on Windows anymore.
  
- People start to ask that I teach them Powershell. This script is a good starting point to explain several aspect of Powershell.

- I want to increase my skill in cross platform module.

- I want to implement my modules in a standardized way.
  
- I want to increase my DevOps skill.

## Why not?

- Using Invoke-build, Psake or Plaster module instead? I really enjoy those modules but according to me those modules too much side questions for a beginner perspective and are too "overkill" for my regular needs.

## How to use it?

Create an hashtable with:

- Your module name: -ModuleName

- The path where you want to store your module: -Path

- The name of the author: -Author

- Description of the module: -Description

- And the company name: -CompanyName

So here an example:

``` Powershell

$params = @{
    ModuleName = 'BuildPsModule10'
    Path = "C:\Git\AzureDevOps"
    Author = 'Francois LEON'
    Description = 'This module is to learn Azure Devops. It can be used for various possibilities'
    CompanyName = 'Scomnewbie'
}

.\create-BlankScaffold.ps1 @params

```

And that's it, you should now see a new folder within your path filled with files and folders. You just have to create your first public/private function and then build your module on you local machine or even in Azure DevOps.

## To Do list:

- I would like to add few other CI template (Github and Gitlab)
  
- Explain the .\build.ps1 script